# 1.0 - DOS/32 Advanced - SUNSYS Bind Utility
SUNSYS Bind Utility should be used when you want to replace a stub program or a DOS Extender provided with (bound to) a protected mode application with DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender. The Bind Utility is also capable of unbinding protected mode applications from the existing Extender/Stub programs they may be bound to.

The usage of SUNSYS Bind Utility is:

*SB [commands] [options] <execname[.xxx]>*

where *execname[.xxx]* is the name of the file you want to bind or unbind. When run without any commands, SUNSYS Bind Utility will report the format of the Linear Executable, ie: LE, LX or LC, and the type of DOS Extender that is bound to it (if any).

The Bind Utility will recognize the following DOS Extenders possibly bound to your application:

DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender (DOS/32A)

DOS/32 Advanced Standard stub (STUB32A)

DOS/32 Advanced Configurable stub (STUB32C)

DOS/4G and DOS/4GW Professional DOS Extenders

PMODE/W DOS Extender

all other bound DOS Extenders or stub files will be reported as "Unknown stub".

The supported Commands are:

**Command**   **Description**           /B   Bind DOS/32A DOS Extender to LE/LX/LC executable.     /BS   Bind STUB/32A Standard Stub file to LE/LX/LC executable.     /BC   Bind STUB/32C Configurable Stub file to LE/LX/LC executable.     /R   Replace existing Extender/Stub with DOS/32A DOS Extender.     /RS   Replace existing Extender/Stub with STUB/32A Standard Stub file.     /RC   Replace existing Extender/Stub with STUB/32C Configurable Stub file.     /U   Unbind and discard existing Extender/Stub from LE/LX/LC executable.

The supported Options are:

**Option**   **Description**           /BNxxx   Specify destination filename when Binding (use with /Bx and /Rx).     /UNxxx   Specify destination filename when Unbinding (use with /U command).     /O   Unconditionally overwrite existing files when Binding/Unbinding.     /Q   Quiet mode (partially disables console output).     /S   Silent mode (totally disables console output, except for errors).     /H   Help (/? is also accepted).

**Notes:**
Commands and Options specified at the command line can be preceded by **-** (minus) specifier as well as by **/** (slash).

Commands and Options specified at the command line can be small or capital letters as the Bind Utility is not case sensitive.

SUNSYS Bind Utility does not require the extension to be specified with *execname.xxx* file name. If the Bind Utility cannot open *execname* file it will by default apply the *.exe* extension to the file name in order to successfully open and process the file.

The default action of SUNSYS Bind Utility when run with no Commands or Options specified at the command line is to show general information about application, such as file name, size, type of application (LE/LX/LC), Extender/Stub bound (if any) as well as the OEM built-in information about the protected mode application (if any).

The **/Bx** and **/Rx** Commands will, when processing executable automatically unbind and discard any existing Extender/Stub, before binding DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender, or STUB/32A and STUB/32C stub files, to the application.

The **/Rx** Commands will unconditionally overwrite any existing files, as opposed to the **/Bx** Commands which will always check whether the destination file with the same file name already exists (in which case the Bind Utility will exit with an error message without modifying the original file).

When using the **/U** Command, SUNSYS Bind Utility will unbind and discard any Extender/Stub bound to the LE/LX/LC application, writing Linear Executable to the file with the same file name as the original, and extension depending on the type of the executable, either *.le*, *.lx* or *.lc* . It is also possible to directly specify destination file name for unbound applications with **/UN** option.

When Binding DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender or DOS/32 Advanced Stub files, the executables *DOS32A.EXE*, *STUB32A.EXE* and *STUB32C.EXE* must be either in DOS/32 Advanced default directory (specified by **DOS32A** environment variable) or in the same directory as the destination files that are to be bound.

When Binding or Unbinding programs make sure that the file specified at the command line does not have "Read Only" or "Hidden" attributes, or the Bind Program will not be able to find and open it.

**Examples:**
The examples below will give a further explanation of how to use the SUNSYS Bind Utility program.

**Example 1:**
*>SB MYPROG.EXE*

Show general information about *MYPROG.EXE* application.

**Example 2:**
*>SB /B MYPROG.EXE*

Bind DOS/32A DOS Extender to *MYPROG.EXE* executable.

If *MYPROG.EXE* file already exists, exit with an error.

**Example 3:**
*>SB /RC /BNmyprog.new /Q MYPROG*

Replace existing Extender/Stub with STUB/32C Configurable Stub.

Set destination file name to *MYPROG.NEW*.

Operate quietly.

Process application with *MYPROG* or *MYPROG.EXE* file name.
