# 2.0 - DOS/32 Advanced - SUNSYS Compress Utility
SUNSYS Compress Utility program can be used to convert the LE- and LX-style Linear Executables into DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender native file format, LC-style Linear Compressed Executable. Note that the protected mode executable compression is optional, and the LC-style executables can be created as uncompressed applications.

The usage of SUNSYS Compress Utility is:

*SC [commands] [options] <execname[.xxx]>*

where *execname[.xxx]* is the name of the file you want to compress.

The supported Commands are:

**Command**   **Description**           /B   Compress and bind DOS/32A DOS Extender to created LC-style executable.     /BS   Compress and bind STUB/32A Standard Stub to created LC-style executable.     /BC   Compress and bind STUB/32C Configurable Stub to created LC-style executable.     /U   Compress and create Unbound LC-style executable.

The supported Options are:

**Option**   **Description**           /D   Disable all optimizations.     /DA   Disable Advanced preprocessing of Executable.     /DE   Disable Encoding of Executable (force no compression).     /DR   Disable Removing post-zero areas from Executable.     /DS   Disable Smart Encoding while compressing Executable.     /V   Verbose mode (displays additional information).     /Q   Quiet mode (partially disables console output).     /S   Silent mode (totally disables console output, except for errors).     /H   Help (/? is also accepted).

**Notes:**
Commands and Options specified at the command line can be preceded by **-** (minus) specifier as well as by **/** (slash).

Commands and Options specified at the command line can be small or capital letters as the Compress Utility is not case sensitive.

SUNSYS Compress Utility does not require the extension to be specified with *execname.xxx* file name. If the Compress Utility cannot open *execname* file it will by default apply the *.exe* extension to the file name in order to succesfully open and process the file.

The default action of SUNSYS Compress Utility when run with no Commands and Options specified at the command line is to compress the application and bind DOS/32A DOS Extender to the produced Executable (equivalent to **/B** command).

When using **/U** command, the Compress Utility will create an unbound LC Executable, that is, an executable not bound to any stub.

The **/D** Option is equivalent to **/DA /DE /DR /DS** sequence and completely disables all optimizations and forces no compression to be applied to the produced LC Executable.

The "LC" file format is natively supported by DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender. The LC-style executables, when not compressed, are loaded slightly faster than the equivalent LE- and LX-style applications. An insignificant time penalty should be taken to the account when the DOS Extender is loading compressed LC-style executables.

When loading the LC-style compressed executables DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender requires the DOS Transfer Buffer size to be at least 8KB large. For more information about DOS Transfer Buffer option please refer to [SUNSYS Setup Utility](3.md) documentation.

During its operation, SUNSYS Compress Utility will spawn SUNSYS Bind Utility, which is required to be either in DOS/32 Advanced default directory (specified by **DOS32A** environment variable) or in the same directory as the destination files that are to be LC-encoded.

**WARNING:** the LC-style executables cannot be converted back to the original file format, either "LE" or "LX". Also, it is not possible to debug applications after they have been converted to the "LC" file format.

**Examples:**
The examples below will give a further explanation of how to use the SUNSYS Compress Utility program.

**Example 1:**
*>SC MYPROG.EXE*

Compress *MYPROG.EXE* and bind DOS/32A to the produced LC Executable.

**Example 2:**
*>SC /DA /V MYPROG.EXE*

Disable Advanced preprocessing optimization feature.

Enable Verbose mode.

Compress *MYPROG.EXE* and bind DOS/32A to the produced LC Executable.

**Example 3:**
*>SC /BC /Q MYPROG*

Bind STUB/32C Configurable Stub to the produced LC Executable.

Operate quietly, only reporting errors or the success message.

Process application with *MYPROG* or *MYPROG.EXE* file name.
