# 3.1 - SUNSYS Setup - General Information Window
**General Information Window**
The General Information Window will provide you with the information about the CPU, system, memory availability as well as DOS/32 Advanced memory requirements.

**CPU Type**
Displays the type of the processor installed into the machine on which the Setup Utility program is currently running.

**System Type**
Displays the type of the system software, which can be Clean, XMS, VCPI or DPMI (WinDPMI when running under Windows) under which the Setup Utility program is currently running.

**Free DOS Memory**
Shows how much free conventional (DOS) memory is available in the system (in KB) *before* you started the Setup program.

**Free High Memory**
Shows how much free extended (High) memory is available in the system (in KB) *after* you started the Setup program.

**Bound File Type**
Shows the executable format of the referenced application (if any). The three recognized file formats are "LE", "LX" and "LC". When configuring stand-alone DOS Extender or Configurable Stub executables *DOS32A.EXE* and *STUB32C.EXE* the Setup will show "N/A" in this field to indicate that the executables are unbound.

**DOS/32A (STUB/32C) Version**
Shows the version number of the referenced DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender that is to be configured. When configuring STUB/32C Configurable Stub the Setup will show "N/A" in this field to indicate that the Stub does not have version information.

**DOS Memory Required**
Shows how much conventional memory the referenced DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender will require when run with the current configuration. This is the number of KB of DOS memory which the DOS Extender will take up when configured according to the information shown in the [Configure DOS/32A DPMI Kernel](3e.md) and [Configure DOS/32A DOS Extender](3f.md) windows. Please note that this number generalizes DOS/32 Advanced memory requirements and should be considered as an advisory number only. To retrieve more precise information about how much memory DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender will take up under each of the four different system softwares (Clean, XMS, VCPI and DPMI) use the F8 key.
