# 2.48 - DPMI function 0A00h - Get Vendor-Specific API Entry Point
Returns an address which can be called to use host-specific extensions to the standard set of DPMI functions.

| **In:** | **AX** = 0A00h<br> **DS:ESI** = selector:offset of ASCIIZ (null-terminated) string which<br> identifies the DPMI host vendor |
|---|---|
| **Out:** | <br><br>if successful:<br> **CF** clear<br> **ES:EDI** = (code)selector:offset of extended API entry point<br> **DS, FS, GS, EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI,** and **EBP** may be modified. <br><br>if failed:<br> **CF** set<br> **AX** = error code <br><br>**8001h** - unsupported function (extension not found) |

**Notes: **

a) The null-terminated string specifies the host-specific vendor name or some other unique identifier to obtain a specific extension entry point. The string comparison used to look up the API entry point is case-sensitive.

b) Clients must use a FAR CALL to reach the extended API entry point.

c) All extended API parameters are specified by the vendor.

d) DOS/32 Advanced recognizes two ID-strings:

1) "RATIONAL DOS/4G",\0
2) "SUNSYS DOS/32A",\0

When calling this function with DS:ESI pointing to the first ID-string, ie "RATIONAL DOS/4G", DOS/32 Advanced will return in ES:EDI a pointer to the entry point of DOS/4G(W) DPMI API extensions.

*) Please note that DOS/4G(W) DPMI API extensions are not supported by this version of DOS/32 Advanced DPMI. A call to DOS/4G(W) extended DPMI API entry point will result in a fatal error which will terminate the application immediately and return to DOS.

When calling this function with DS:ESI pointing to the second ID-string, ie "SUNSYS DOS/32A", DOS/32 Advanced will return in ES:EDI a pointer to the entry point of DOS/32 Advanced DPMI API extensions, and an additional information in the following registers:

**AX** = DOS Extender version number

**AL** = minor version number (binary)
**AH** = major version number (binary)

**BL** = DPMI Kernel configuration bits
**BH** = System software type:

00h = Clean
01h = XMS
02h = VCPI
03h = DPMI

**CL** = CPU type:

03h = 80386
04h = 80486
05h = 80586 (Pentium)
06h = 80686 (Pentium Pro or Pentium II)
07h-0FFh = reserved

**CH** = FPU type:

00h = none (no co-processor is present)
01h = 8087
02h = 80287
03h = 80387
04h = 80486 with numeric coprocessor
05h = 80586 (Pentium)
06h = 80686 (Pentium Pro or Pentium II)

**DX** = PIC values (unrelocated)
**ES:EDI** = (code)selector:offset of DOS/32 Advanced DPMI API extensions
**DS:ESI, EBP, FS, GS** = unmodified

Please refer to the section *2.52 - Vendor Specific DPMI API Extensions* to get full information about DOS/32 Advanced extended DPMI API functions.

Additional information about value returned in BL register and about DOS/32 Advanced DPMI Kernel configuration can be found in the document "DOS/32 Advanced Technical Reference".
