# 3.0 - DOS/32 Advanced - Usage
There are several ways DOS/32 Advanced can be "plugged" into your 16-bit and 32-bit protected mode applications and games. The simpliest way to replace the old DOS/4GW DOS Extender provided with many programs is to copy DOS/32 Advanced executable file *dos32a.exe* into the directory where you installed the software (the directory containing *dos4gw.exe* file), delete the old *dos4gw.exe* file and rename *dos32a.exe* to *dos4gw.exe*. You can always preserve the old *dos4gw.exe* file by copying it into another directory, and if the program you intended to run with DOS/32 Advanced is not 100 per cent DOS/32 Advanced compatible, you can always recopy the old *dos4gw.exe* DOS Extender back.

Below are listed three different examples which show three different ways of how you can use DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender in your programs. Please note that the examples assume you are using an MS-DOS or compatible Operating System.

***Example 1:***

You have installed the game TIE FIGHTER (CD Version) into directory *C:\GAMES\TIECD*. In the same directory is located file *dos4gw.exe*.

**STEP 1)** Copy file *dos32a.exe* into the directory *C:\GAMES\TIECD*, type at DOS prompt:

* >copy dos32a.exe C:\GAMES\TIECD*

**STEP 2)** Preserve file *dos4gw.exe* in *C:\TEMP* directory and remove it from *C:\GAMES\TIECD*, type at DOS prompt:

* >cd C:\GAMES\TIECD
>move dos4gw.exe C:\TEMP*

**STEP 3)** Rename *dos32a.exe* to *dos4gw.exe*, type at DOS prompt:

* >ren dos32a.exe dos4gw.exe*

**STEP 4)** Start the game as usual by typing *tie* at DOS prompt.

Note that if you do not want to preserve the old file *dos4gw.exe* you can simply type at DOS prompt:

* >copy dos32a.exe C:\GAMES\TIECD\dos4gw.exe*

Another way to use DOS/32 Advanced with your protected mode applications is to execute it on a program by typing at DOS prompt: *dos32a myprog.exe* where *myprog.exe* is the file that is to be run. This way, you can keep the files unmodified on your hard drive but run them under DOS/32 Advanced, or start programs from CD-ROMs where the files can not be modified. You can also create batch files in which you can place the commands described below to simplify the start of your programs. Please note that DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender is capable of starting programs from the command line even if they are bound to another DOS Extender, for example DOS/4GW Professional!

***Example 2:***

You have installed the game DOOM II into directory *C:\DOOM2*. In the same directory is located file *doom2.exe* which is the game's executable file.

**STEP 1)** Copy the file *dos32a.exe* into the directory *C:\DOOM2*, type at DOS prompt:

* >copy dos32a.exe C:\DOOM2*

**STEP 2)** Create a batch file *d2.bat*, type at DOS prompt:

* >cd C:\DOOM2
>copy con d2.bat
>@dos32a doom2.exe
>^Z*

File *d2.bat* will be created after you press ^Z (CTRL-Z) key combination to interrupt the input. Start the game by typing *d2* at DOS prompt.

The third way to use DOS/32 Advanced with your protected mode applications is to bind it to a program. You must use the [SUNSYS Bind Utility](../util/1.md) program *sb.exe* which is included with DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender. When binding DOS/32 Advanced to an executable file, the old DOS Extender or stub file which was bound to the application will be removed and discarded. Therefore you should make sure that the program is DOS/32 Advanced compatible. This can be done by executing DOS/32 Advanced on program's executable file as described above. The following example will show how to bind DOS/32 Advanced to a program:

***Example 3:***

You have installed the game DUKE NUKEM 3D into directory *C:\DUKE3D*. In the same directory is located file *duke3d.exe* which is the game's executable file.

**STEP 1)** Use SUNSYS Bind Utility to bind DOS/32 Advanced executable file *dos32a.exe* to a program, type at DOS prompt:

* >cd C:\DUKE3D
>sb -r duke3d.exe*

The Bind Utility will report its actions and show the final size of the file *duke3d.exe*. You will notice that it had changed and became smaller by almost 200KB. The game can now be started as usual.
