# 8.0 - DOS/32 Advanced - Error Codes and Messages
**Legend:**

%d - a decimal value
%b - a heximal value (8 bits)
%w - a heximal value (16 bits)
%l - a heximal value (32 bits)
%c - a character
%s - a sting

DOS/32A fatal (0000): this program requires DOS 4.00 or higher

- DOS/32 Advanced requires DOS 4.00 or higher.

DOS/32A fatal (0001): 80386 processor or better required to run protected mode

- DOS/32 Advanced requires an 80386 processor or better.

DOS/32A fatal (0002): system software does not follow VCPI/DPMI specifications

- Unknown memory manager is present and running protected mode. There is no way for DOS/32 Advanced to switch into protected mode. Replace memory manager and try again. The supported memory managers are: clean system, also known as "Clean", "raw" or "INT 15h", XMS, VCPI and DPMI.

DOS/32A fatal (0003): present DPMI host does not support 32bit applications

- An older 16-bit version of DPMI host that is in place cannot run 32-bit programs. Try to unload the software which installs 16-bit DPMI, or change the memory manager.

DOS/32A fatal (0004): incompatible VCPI PIC mappings

- VCPI Programmable Interrupt Controllers (PICs) have been relocated to the values which DOS/32 Advanced does not support. PICs must NOT be mapped at software interrupt vectors INT 00-07h, INT 21h and INT 31h. Neither can both of the PICs be mapped at the same interrupt vector at the same time. To solve the problem try to replace the memory manager.

DOS/32A fatal (0005): could not enter 32bit protected mode

- External DPMI host could not switch DOS/32 Advanced into protected mode. Try running DOS/32 Advanced with another memory manager.

DOS/32A fatal (0006): could not allocate system selectors

- External DPMI host could not allocate selectors required by DOS/32 Advanced. Try running DOS/32 Advanced with another memory manager.

DOS/32A fatal (0007): could not enable A20 line

- A20 line could not be enabled, machine may be not 100 percent PC/AT or PS/2 compatible. Try to install a memory manager or replace the present one.

DOS/32A fatal (1001): not enough DOS memory, additional %dKB needed

- You don't have enough conventional memory. Try to free up some by unloading not needed TSRs, changing memory manager or reconfiguring DOS/32 Advanced. The "%d" number will show how much memory (in KB) is missing.

DOS/32A fatal (1002): DOS reported insufficient memory

- You don't have enough conventional memory. Try to free up some by unloading not needed TSRs, changing memory manager or reconfiguring DOS/32 Advanced.

DOS/32A fatal (2000): invalid environment

- DOS/32 Advanced built-in DPMI, or the external DPMI server could not allocate a selector for the environment. Try to install or replace memory manager. This error is also reported when DOS/32 Advanced was not able to create the environment for the program that was specified on command line. Make sure you have enough conventional memory and you configured the DOS Extender to allocate enough selectors.

DOS/32A fatal (2001): could not open exec file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced could not find file "%s". The file may be corrupted in some way or does not exist. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (2002): error in exec file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced detected an error in file "%s". The file may be corrupted in some way or does not exist. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (3001): could not open application file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced could not find and/or open application file "%s" specified on the command line. Either the file does not exist or the path was incorrect, or the file may be corrupted in some way. Check that file "%s" exists and the path is correct. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (3002): error in application file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced detected an error in application file "%s" specified at command line. The file may be corrupted in some way. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (3003): file "%s" does not contain any valid exec format

- DOS/32 Advanced cannot execute file "%s". Either the executable file format is not supported, or the file has been corrupted in some way. Check that the file "%s" is executable. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (3004): exec format not supported in file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced cannot execute file "%s". Either the executable file format is not supported, or the file has been corrupted in some way. Check that the file "%s" is executable. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (3005): error in application file "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced cannot execute file "%s". Either the executable file format is not supported, or the file has been corrupted in some way. Check that the file "%s" is executable. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (4001): too many objects in application exec "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced supports up to 64 Objects per application. Rebuild your program so that the executable contains no more than 64 Objects.

DOS/32A fatal (4002): not enough DOS memory to load application exec

- There is not enough conventional (DOS) memory to load your application. Rebuild your program so that it occupies less memory, free some of conventional memory or reconfigure DOS/32 Advanced.

DOS/32A fatal (4003): not enough extended memory to load application exec "%s"

- There is not enough extended (High) memory to load your application. Rebuild your program so that it occupies less memory, free some of extended memory or reconfigure DOS/32 Advanced.

DOS/32A fatal (4004): not enough extended memory to load fixups for %s

- DOS/32 Advanced could not load fixups for file "%s" because of extended memory shortage. This problem often arises when a DOS/32 Advanced application was spawned from non-compatible DOS Extender. Try to replace the DOS Extender for the program that spawned DOS/32 Advanced, make sure you have enough extended memory.

DOS/32A fatal (4005): unrecognized fixup data in application exec "%s"

- The program was loaded, but could not be relocated because of bad fixup data records. Either an error occurred at link time or the application was corrupted in some way. It is also possible that DOS/32 Advanced does not support a fixup record in "%s". Recompile, recopy or rebuild application file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (4006): 16bit fixup overflow in application exec "%s"

- The program was loaded, but could not be relocated because of bad fixup data records. Either an error occurred at link time or the application was corrupted in some way. Recompile or recopy file "%s".

DOS/32A fatal (4007): not enough DOS Transfer Buffer space to load LC-exec "%s"

- DOS/32 Advanced cannot load Linear Compressed executable "%s" because the size of DOS Transfer Buffer is set too small. Reconfigure the DOS Extender and set DOS Transfer Buffer size to any value that is equal to or is greater than 8KB (8192 bytes).

DOS/32A fatal (8001): syntax is DOS32A <execname.xxx>

- The syntax is DOS32A[.EXE] <executable[.xxx]>.

DOS/32A fatal (8002): DOS reported an error (#%w)

- An error was reported by DOS. The value "%w" will show returned DOS error code.

DOS/32A fatal (8003): DPMI host reported an error (#%w)

- An error was reported by a DPMI host. The value "%w" will show returned DPMI error code.

DOS/32A warning (9001): no extended memory had been allocated

- DOS/32 Advanced could not allocate any extended memory. Note that when an external DPMI host and a VCPI server are present at the same time, and DOS/32 Advanced is configured to detect VCPI first, no extended memory can be available due to the fact that the DPMI host might have already allocated it all. Another possibility is that a DOS/32 Advanced application was spawned from a software incompatible with DOS/32 Advanced in the matter of extended memory allocation. Finally, DOS/32 Advanced might have been configured to not allocate any extended memory at all. Reconfigure DOS/32 Advanced. Make sure that the software, from which the application was spawned is DOS/32 Advanced compatible. Replace memory manager.

DOS/32A warning (9002): PICs have been relocated to INT %bh, INT %bh

- Programmable Interrupt Controllers (PICs) have been remapped by the previously run/installed software. The first number will show the current mapping of the master PIC, the second, mapping of the slave PIC.

DOS/32A warning (9003): real mode interrupt vector had been modified: INT %bh

- This warning will be issued on your protected mode program's exit. It will inform you that the protected mode program that was just run, did install a real mode interrupt "%b", or did modify the real mode interrupt vector table in some other way, but it did not restore the original value of "%b". Note that many protected mode programs do not care for restoring certain real mode interrupts, such as INT 1Ch, INT 23h and INT 24h. However, since DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender will restore the whole real mode interrupt vector table on exit to DOS (unless this option is disabled), this will usually do no harm to the system.

DOS/32A warning (9004): mouse initialization failed

- Either mouse driver was not installed, or the mouse driver is incompatible with DOS/32 Advanced in some way. This warning may also be issued if the Low Buffer size is set to a value below 4096 bytes.

DOS/32A warning (9005): object #%d contains no data or code

- This warning will be reported when a protected mode application contains Objects with the size of zero (empty Objects). Normally, the linker will automatically remove such Objects from the application, unless they are referenced from somewhere in the program.

DOS/32A warning (9006): incompatible version of DOS/32A already running

- This warning will be issued when spawning a DOS/32 Advanced application from another DOS/32 Advanced program, and the DOS Extenders' versions are not compatible (ie they have different versions). Make sure that all the applications that are to be spawned run under one and the same version of DOS/32 Advanced DOS Extender.

DOS/32A run-time (6000): unknown error code (#%b)

- DOS/32 Advanced Terminate Program on Error routine was called with unknown error code. This can happen when a protected mode program improperly installs exception handlers.

DOS/32A run-time (6001): exception (INT %bh)
DOS/32A run-time (6001): unexpected interrupt (INT %bh)

- The protected mode applications contains errors, which prevent it from normal operation. Recompile or recopy the program.

DOS/32A run-time (6002): out of real-mode virtual stacks

- DOS/32 Advanced run out of real-mode virtual stacks. This can happen when a protected mode program makes too many nested calls to real mode software. Make sure that you configured DOS/32 Advanced properly. Check that the timer is not reprogrammed to run at a frequency that is too high for the CPU and the rest of the hardware.

DOS/32A run-time (6003): out of protected-mode virtual stacks

- DOS/32 Advanced run out of protected-mode virtual stacks. This can happen when a real mode software makes too many nested calls to a protected mode program. Make sure that you configured DOS/32 Advanced properly. Check that the timer is not reprogrammed to run at a frequency that is too high for the CPU and the rest of the hardware.

DOS/32A run-time (6004): extended memory blocks have been destroyed

- Each time DOS/32 Advanced built-in DPMI functions 05xxh (extended memory management) are called, the integrity of already allocated extended memory blocks will be checked. If DOS/32 Advanced detects that the blocks had been overwritten or corrupted in some other way (happens when a program writes to memory it had not allocated), this error will be reported.

DOS/32A run-time (6005): DOS/4G API calls not supported

- When a protected mode program makes a call to access DOS/4G DPMI API extensions, this error will be reported. Currently DOS/32 Advanced does not support DOS/4G DPMI API extensions.
