# 6.04 - DOS/32 Advanced D32A Library function - *d32a_int86xpm()
**Synopsys:**

*

#include <d32a.h>
void d32a_int86xpm(int IntNum, D32A_REGS *InRegs, D32A_REGS *OutRegs, D32A_SREGS *SegRegs);

*

**Description:**

The *d32a_int86xpm* function issues a software interrupt **IntNum** in the Protected Mode. Before the interrupt, the 32-bit CPU registers are loaded from the structure located by **InRegs** and the segment registers are loaded from the structure located by **SegRegs**. Although the function checks the values in the **SegRegs** structure to be valid Protected Mode Selectors before loading the segment registers, you should always make sure that none of the fields of the **SegRegs** structure contains invalid values that may cause protection violation. When the interrupt is completed, the structure **OutRegs** is filled with the contents of the CPU registers. The following CPU registers are passed to the interrupt handler: EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, EBP, Eflags, DS, ES, FS, GS. Please note that the interrupt **IntNum** is executed in the Protected Mode if a protected mode handler for this interrupt is installed. Otherwise, the interrupt **IntNum** will be reflected to the Real Mode by the DOS Extender, where it will be handled by a Real Mode interrupt handler.

**Returns:**

The **OutRegs** structure is filled with contents of the CPU registers and the **SegRegs** structure is filled with the contents of the segment registers when the interrupt **IntNum** completes. This function does not return any value.
